---
Journal: "[[231205oms]]"
Project: "[[!Ý Barry Elder]]"
Intersection: NotoBE
Notes: Boredom, procrastination, getting things done
---

Ok let's Test this theory. 

It was claimed by some youtuber that the solution to getting things done, i.e., pushing through procrastination is to be bored or allow yourself to be bored. The theory is that we are all innately averse to boredom. I've heard this before. Sam Harris has spoken to this topic previously claiming that the fact that solitary confinement... oh wait I might be mixing up my thoughts here, anyway let's go with it. Solitary confinement is punishment because even sociopaths need human interaction, hmmm. what does this have to do with boredom? Maybe the youtuber was suggesting that social interaction is in itself an antidote to boredom. I actually don't think that's what he was saying. so back to what he was saying, if you're bored you will do anything  to not be so. He did refer to the college student shock experiment, that is the experiment where some large percentage of individuals chose to shock themselves rather than just be in their boredom. 

So here we are. I am going to start to force some discipline, will power, call it what you will. I do know, in support of this boredom theory, that I am very prone to kick the can down the sidewalk and do anything I can do in the immediate next moment to avoid picking up the can. This is so very obviously pathological.  
Allow me to list the next-immediate-moment-fillers (NIMFs) I most frequently for boredom don't forbear. 


- News - I check the news sometimes almost twitch-like. I have tried to avoid looking at CNN,  turning my attention (or rather distraction ) to AP news. I look at headlines, with some sense of guilty pleasure, scanning for some indication that Donald Trump (can't recall what it was before him, but there was a tribal trigger I'm sure ) will participate in our judicial system in the capacity of his appropriate role. I rarely read full articles unless they are truly consequential, which is exceedingly rare, or they are lightheartedly a bit awesome, though this too is rare. What I do find myself doing more often than not, is clicking on ads for largely guitar related stuff. THAT becomes much more than a NIMF. That often becomes a several minutes long distraction that may lead to several of the next NIMFs in series.
- Deal hunting - I would almost certainly be considered by a professional assigner of addiction diagnoses to have some sort of associated addiction here. A lot of my attention is on guitar gear. This phenomenon of gadgetry gathering in guitarists' gaggles is called GAS- Gear AcquisitionSyndrome. In this moment I have an itch for a reverb pedal that, in my conflicted gut, I think it will provide the inspiration to drive me to practice and seek to perform. I've got SOOOO much gear purchased under the guise of this same delusion. I also like to purchase gadgetry related to whatever other interests I have. It's occurring to me now, for the first time, #BE/self that these interests may have in common a concept of,  let's call it , identity projection and  acceptance seeking. I'm feeling very hypocritical about this. More on this to come I'm sure. 
- Guitar noodling - Related to the above pathology, I spend far more time making sounds, punching pedals, switching guitars and tweaking tone than I do practicing or more importantly making music or composing. 
- Youtube - this intersects with everything above. 
- Showers - 
- Organizing- I've written a fair amount in my journals about this, even started outlining a book [[🗃️ Resting/ASite/ElderNotes/Hypothesis - Why we organize|Hypothesis - Why we organize]]

The prevailing theory behind my increasingly culturally accompanied behavior is that we are rewarded with dopamine hits with each NIMF. This, I think, is considered to be a big part of  addiction mechanics.  More on this another  time. 


It is 7:42 PM Time to fly

**Oh yeah- Related to organizing I spend WAY TOO MUCH TIME allowing myself to build a car to get to the end of the street.**


Case in point, it is 6 minutes later. 231205-19:48 I just spent those 6 minutes searching for the insert time hotkey. Along the way I found that the link to the template for the unique note was broken and had to fix that too, even though I rarely use it. That process entailed trying to remember my rationale for setting up as control+command+T 231205-19:52. 4 minutes it took me to get that out jeesh!
