---
Journal: "[[231219oms]]"
Project: "[[!Ý Barry Elder]]"
Intersection: NotoBE
Notes: conflation of disorders and public health issues
---
[Paper Chase](https://chat.openai.com/g/g-2QvkAXuip-paper-chase)

The conflation of disorders and public health issues with mental health. I want to explore this. 
Examples of what I'm talking about:
- Suicide and mental health
- Fentanyl and mental health are in part the topic of this https://calmatters.org/health/mental-health/2023/12/mental-health-conservatorship-newsom/
- Gun violence and mental illness

I guess the real topic I want to explore is the idea that the solution to these issues is increased attention on mental health, that mental health related measures can be used to predict and or prevent these other issues. 
https://chat.openai.com/share/2dd0fc5f-23ab-4c5b-abce-d2df97a35cb6

Pathology Conflation - Could this be a term?

Some BS...

Thinking about why mental health is perceived differently from other aspects of health

- Does it have to do with the subjective nature of it? 

- Does it have to do with the common perception that ones mental health follows ones conscious perceptions? 
- Is there any relationship to consciousness/self awareness and mental health. 
- What is the definition of [[Mental Health]]? The part of that definition "the general condition of one's mental and emotional state"  conflates mental and emotional state. Might it be useful to view mental and emotional states as related but independent aspects of ones health? Or maybe that's the wrong question. [A more appropriate one might be what else is there to ones mental state beyond there emotional state?](https://chat.openai.com/share/158cceb3-d355-4ff0-9692-97ef0ed688e0)
	- [[x /Cognition]]
	- [[Perception]]
	- 




